# Integration package assets

This doc is to describe all the assets available in the integration packages and some details around each asset.

## General Assets

### Manifest

* Asset Path: `manifest.yml`

The `manifest.yml` contains the information about the pacakge. It can contain the following entries:

* name: Name of the integration (required)
* description: Description of the integration (required)
* version: Version of the integration (required)
* categories: List of categories this integration falls under. The available categories still need to be defined.
* requirement: Requirement is an object that contains all the requirements for the stack versions of this integration. Inside it contains an entry for each possible service which then can contain `version.min` and `version.max`. Other requirements might be added here like dependency on a specific Elasticsearch plugin / ingest pipeline if needed. In the past this was needed for geo and user_agent as they were not installed by default.


An example manifest might look as following:

```
name: envoyproxy
title: Envoy Proxy
description: This is the envoyproxy integration.
version: 0.0.2
categories: ["logs", "metrics"]
# Options are experimental, beta, ga
release: beta
# The package type. The options for now are [integration, solution], more type might be added in the future.
# The default type is integration and will be set if empty.
type: integration
compatibility: [1.0.2, 2.0.1]
os.platform: [darwin, freebsd, linux, macos, openbsd, windows]

requirement:
  elasticsearch:
    version.min: 7.0
    version.max: 7
  kibana:
    version.min: 7.0
  metricbeat:
    version.min: 7.1
  filebeat:
    version.min: 7.2

# The order of the items listed here is the order they show up in the package overview.
screenshots:
  # The src path is relative from inside the package. The full path will be generated by the server
  # and exposed through the API.
- src: /img/overview-logs.png
  title: This shows the overview of the logs dashboard.
  # The type does not have to be set explicitly if it's in the file extesions
  # but the server will extract it an expose it through the API
  type: image/png
  # The size of the image could be detect by the server too if needed.
  # We must come up with a recommended image size.
  size: 800x600
- src: /img/overview-metrics.jpg
  title: Metrics Dashboard.
  size: 800x600
- src: getting-started.mp4
  title: Getting started with the envoyproxy integration.
  size: 800x600
  type: video/mp4
```

The definition of the manifest is not complete yet and further details will follow.

Question: How do we handle if only one metricset is in beta but integration is in GA?

### changelog.yml

The changelog of a package contains always all previous changes and not only the one from the last major, minor, bugfix release. 
Each array entry is a release. The type entry can contain the following values: [added, bugfix, deprecated, breaking-change, known-issue]

The file looks as following:

```
- version: 1.0.4
  changes:
    - description: >
        Unexpected breaking change had to be introduced. This should not happen in a minor.
      type: breaking-change
      link: https://github.com/elastic/beats/issues/13504
- version: 1.0.3
  changes:
    - description: Fix broken template
      type: bugfix
      link: https://github.com/elastic/beats/issues/13507
    - description: It is a known issue that the dashboard does not load properly
      type: known-issue
      link: https://github.com/elastic/beats/issues/13506

```

### Fields.yml

* Asset Path: fields/*.yml

The fields.yml files are used for fields definitions and can be used to generate the index pattern in Kibana, elasticsearch
index template or rollup jobs. It's not clear yet on how the integrations manager should use this file and if.

The directory is reserved for multiple fields.yml as each integration, beat and ecs have it's own `fields.yml`.

## Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch assets are the assets which are loaded into Elasticsearch. All of them are inside `elasticsearch` directory.


### Ingest Pipeline

* Asset Path: `elasticsearch/ingest-pipeline/*.json`

The [Elasticsearch ingest pipeline](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/pipeline.html) contains
information on how the data should be processed. Multiple ingest pipelines can depend on each other thanks to the
[pipeline processor](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/pipeline-processor.html). As during
package creation, the exact names given to the pipeline by the integrations manager is not know, we will need to use
some variables to reference. An example on this can be found [here](https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/master/filebeat/module/elasticsearch/deprecation/ingest/pipeline.json#L24)
 in Beats. It means the integrations manager will have to be able to understand this template language (we still need
 to decide what our template language is) and replace the pipeline ids with the correct values.

 ### Index Template

* Asset Path: `elasticsearch/index-template/*.json`

The [Elasticsearch index template](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/indices-templates.html)
is used to have a template applied to certain index patterns. Inside the Index Template the values `index_patterns` is defined
for the matching indices. As the indexing convention is either given by the index manager or the user, the integrations
manager must be able to overwrite the index pattern.

On the Beats side today the Index Template is generated out of the `fields.yml` files. This allows to give more flexibility
to generate the correct template for different Elasticsearch version. As we can release integrations packages for different
version of Elasticsearch independently this is probably not needed anymore. I expect fields.yml to stick around as it's a nice
way to create index templates and index patterns in one go. The integration manager should be able to generate index templates
and index patterns out of all the combined fields.yml.

An Index Template also relates to the ILM policy as it can reference to which ILM policy should be applied to the indices
created.

### ILM Policy

* Asset Path: `elasticsearch/ilm-policy/*.json`

The Elasticsearch index lifecycle management policy can be added / removed through the [API](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/index-lifecycle-management-api.html). For the ILM policy it's important
that the id / name of it matches what was configured in the index template.

The setup of ILM also requires to created an [alias and a write index](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/indices-aliases.html#aliases-write-index). It's important that this happens before the first data is ingested. More details on this
can be found in the [rollover documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/indices-rollover-index.html).

Even if an ILM policy is created after a template and the write index were created, it will still apply. But if data is
ingested before the template and the write index exist, this will break the system.

### Rollup Job

* Asset Path: `elasticsearch/rollup-job/*.json`

A [rollup job](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rollup-apis.html) defines on how metric
data is rolled up. One special thing about rollup jobs is that they can only be created if index and data is already around.
Rollup jobs can potentially also be generated from `fields.yml` but it should be up to the package creator to do this.

Rollup jobs today do not support rollup templates which would be nice to have, see [discussion here](https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/7220).
This would allow to separate creation of the template and actually creation / start of the job.

A rollup job depends on an index pattern and has a target index. The integrations manager should potentially be able
to configure this.

### Index Data

* Asset Path: `elasticseearch/index/*.json`

Index data is data that should be written into Elasticsearch. The data format is expected to be in the [Bulk format](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/docs-bulk.html).

If the user can configure the index, the integrations manager should potentially be able to overwrite / prefix the index
fields inside the loaded data.

Loading of data can fail or partially fail. Because of this handling on failure must be possible.

### ML Jobs

* Asset Path: `elasticsearch/ml-job/*.json`

Elasticsearch [Machine Learning Jobs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/ml-apis.html#ml-api-job-endpoint)
can be created in Elasticsearch assuming ML is enabled. As soon as a job is started, the job creates results. If results
are around, a Job can't be just removed anymore but also the results must be removed first (more details needed).

### Data Frames Transform

* Asset Path: `elasticsearch/data-frame-transform/*.json`

[Data Frame Transforms](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.x/data-frame-apis.html) can be used to transfrom documents. There are a few things which are special about data frame transforms:

* Destination index must exist before creation
* Source index must be exist before creation
* If data frame uses ingest pipeline, it must exist before creation
* Data Fram transform must be stopped before deletion

Some of the above limitations might be removed in the future.



## Kibana

Kibana assets are the assets which are loaded in Kibana. The Kibana API docs can be found [here](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/api.html).
A large portion of the Kibana assets are [saved objects](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/saved-objects-api.html).
All saves objects are space aware, meaning the same object id with a different prefix can exists in multiple spaces.

Assuming the integrations manager generates the ids of the assets it must be capable to adjust the reference ids acrross
dashboards, visualizations, search, index patterns.

### Dashboard

* Asset Path: `kibana/dashboard/*.json`

A Kibana dashboard consists of multiple visualisations it references.

### Visualization

* Asset Path: `kibana/visualization/*.json`

Visualizations are referenced inside dashboards and can reference a search object.

### Search

* Asset Path: `kibana/search/*.json`

The search object contains a saved search and is referenced by visualisations. A search object also references an index
like `"index": "filebeat-*"`. In case we allow users to adjust indices, this would have to be adjusted in the search object.

### Index Pattern

* Asset Path: `kibana/index-pattern/*.json`

The index pattern contains to information about the types of each field and additional settings for the fields like if it
is a percentage or the unit like seconds. Today in Beats the index pattern is generated out of the `fields.yml`. This
allows to generate the index pattern for different versions of Kibana. As we can release different versions of a package
we probably don't need this anymore.

ECS also provides a fields.yml in the same format. One limitation of index-patterns in Kibana is that they can't be extended
or support inheritance / composition like the index templates in Elasticsearch. Having many index patterns in Kibana is a
problem as a user would have to constantly switch between them. The integrations manager could work around this by
append / updating index pattern. But this will lead to the problem on how to remove these fields again.

### Infrastructure UI Source

* Asset Path: `kibana/infrastructure-ui-source/*.json`

The Infrastructure UI source is used to tell the Logs and Metrics UI which indices to query for data and how to 
visualise the data.

The asset is like dashboards / visualizations just a saved object and can be loaded the same way. But the Logs UI 
could also add an API for a tighter integration. At the moment there is no selection in the UI to change / switch the source
but it can be triggered through URL parameters.

### Space

* Asset Path: `kibana/space/*.json`

The Kibana Space API can be found [here](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/spaces-api.html). Kibana Spaces
are not saved objects and have their own API.

### Input

* Asset Path: `input/{input-name}/{package-structure}`

All inputs are defined inside the `input` directory. An example here is the `access` input of the `nginx` package.
Inside each input, the same structure is repeated which is defined for the overall package. In general ingest pipelines
and fields definitions are only expected inside input. 

**manifest.yml**

Each input must contain a manifest.yml. It contains all information about the input and how to configure it.

```
# Needs to describe the type of this input. Currently either metric or log
type: metric

# Each input can be in its own release status
release: beta

# Defines variables which are used in the config files and can be configured by the user / replaced by the package manager.
vars:
  - name: hosts
    description: Nginx hosts
    default:
      ["http://127.0.0.1"]
    required: true
  - name: period
    description: "Collection period. Valid values: 10s, 5m, 2h"
    default: "10s"
  - name: username
    type: text
  - name: password
    # This is the html input type?
    type: password


requirements:
  # Defines on which platform is input is available
  platform: ["linux", "freebsd"]
  elasticsearch.processors:
    # If a user does not have the user_agent processor, he should still be able to install the integration but not
    # enable the access input
    - name: user_agent
      plugin: ingest-user-agent
    - name: geoip
      plugin: ingest-geoip

```

**fields**

The fields directory contains all fields.yml which are need to build the full template. All fields related to the input
must be in here in one or multiple files.

An open question is on how the fields for all the processors and autodiscovery are loaded.

**docs**

The docs for each input are combined with the overall docs. For the inputs it is encouraged to have `data.json` as an 
example event available.

**agent/input**

Agent input configuration for the input. It's by design not an array but a single entry. The package manager will build
a list out of it for the user.

**filebeat/input**

This contains the raw input configuration for the input.

**filebeat/module**

This contains the module configuration for the input. It is only 1 fileset and is not stored as an array.

**light_module**

This directory is designed to store light modules from Metricbeat. It contains the definition of the light module.

**module**

This contains the module configuration for this input. In the case of Metricbeat this means a module configuration with a
single metricset. By design it's not an array that is specified.

## Beats

How the input configuration for each Beat are stored still needs to be discussed.

## Definitions

### Integration

An integration is a list of assets for the Elastic stack that belong together. This can be ingest pipelines,
data sources, dashboards etc. All of these are defined above.

### Input

An input is the configuration that is sent to Beats / Agent to gather data. The input contains the infromation
on how to gather the data (e.g. log file) and where to send it (index + ingest pipeline). An example for a log
file might look as following:

```
inputs:
  - type: log
    paths: "/var/log/*.log"
    pipeline: log-pipeline
```

A similar example for docker metrics can look as below. But what we have below is the definition of 2 inputs, one 
for container metrics, one for cpu metrics:

```
  - type: metric/docker
    metricsets:
      - "container"
      - "cpu"
    hosts: ["unix:///var/run/docker.sock"]
    period: 10s
    pipeline: metric-docker-pipeline
```

### Data Source

A data source is a group of inputs. Each data source has a unique identifier and a name attached to it. A data
source for Apache could look as following:

```
datasource.name: apache
datasource.name: 4494ee18-2a5a-4212-afa7-9bbe9ade6bfc
inputs:
  - type: log
    paths: "/var/log/apache/access.log"
    pipeline: apache-access-pipeline
  - type: metric/apache
    metricsets:
      - "stats"
    period: 10s
```

The above is more a descriptive example for a data source and not necessarly on how it will be stored.
